
SOAP:

	SOAP is a protocol which was designed before REST and came into the picture.
	The main idea behind designing SOAP was to ensure that programs built on different 
	 platforms and programming languages could exchange data in an easy manner.
	SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol.
	
REST:
	REST was designed specifically for working with components such as media components, files, 
	 or even objects on a particular hardware device.
	 Any web service that is defined on the principles of REST can be called a RestFul web service. 
	 REST stands for Representational State Transfer.

SOAP VS. REST
	SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol whereas REST stands for Representational State Transfer.
	SOAP is a protocol whereas REST is an architectural pattern.
	SOAP uses service interfaces to expose its functionality to client applications while REST uses Uniform 
	 Service locators to access to the components on the hardware device.
	SOAP needs more bandwidth for its usage whereas REST doesn’t need much bandwidth.
	Comparing SOAP vs REST API, SOAP only works with XML formats whereas REST work with plain text, XML, HTML and JSON.
	SOAP cannot make use of REST whereas REST can make use of SOAP.
	
	
	
HTTP request methods:
HTTP defines a set of request methods to indicate the desired action to be performed for a given resource.
 Although they can also be nouns, these request methods are sometimes referred to as HTTP verbs.
  Each of them implements a different semantic, but some common features are shared by a group of them: 
   e.g. a request method can be safe, idempotent, or cacheable.
   
   
GET

    The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.
HEAD

    The HEAD method asks for a response identical to a GET request, but without the response body.
POST

    The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.
PUT

    The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
DELETE

    The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
CONNECT

    The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.
OPTIONS

    The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.
TRACE

    The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
PATCH

    The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.
